---
week: 1
year: 2026
slug: "week-2026-01"
dateStart: "2026-01-01"
dateEnd: "2026-01-07"
title: "Back to Basics"
summary: "I want to start the new year off right and go back to the very basics."
---

# Plan for this Week:
- Refresh C++
- Planning out the next semester

### Imposter Syndrome: 

As it stands, I have one semester left in my masters program and so far I feel like a lot of what I learned never really stuck. Therefore, I want to start off this week by going back to the basics and refreshing on C++ (considering I also have a C++ class next semester). 

## Jan. 2nd
- Birthday!

Today was my birthday and had some free time so I started to watch this course from [Bro Code](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-TkoO8Z07hI). My goal is to watch this video and refresh on the very basic with C++. What I really want to do is at least post something everyday even if its a minor update, the goal is to be consistent. 

## Jan. 3rd

Started actually writing out the very basics of a program. The main goal is to focus on: 

    - Input and Output CLI
    - Functions
    - Constants and Type Aliases
    - Arithmetic Operations and Type Conversions
    - Common math Operations

I started building a console-based mini test bench, and I got the idea from asking ChatGPT about what projects to build. However I think for the next project I might have to make it more clear with what it wants. 

```
===============================
Welcome to the mini test bench!
Please Enter Voltage (V): 
1.2
Please Enter Current (A): 
12
Please Enter Resistance (Ω) : 
200
Please Enter 2nd Voltage (V): 
1.22
===============================
```

Here is the beginning of it. Very basic, but it is starting to come back. 

## Jan. 4th

I forgot to post the day of, however, made some considerable. Focused on making the interface neater and found a neat solution for making the loading dots on stack overflow. 

## Jan. 5th

I thinking I want to set up some ground rules or at least add some constraints to what I can and cannot do. 

Here are some rules that I must follow: 

1) No use of generative AI code. 
        - This being ChatGPT, Claude, or Gemini. Even when looking doing a google search I cannot even look at what Gemini suggests.
2) No directly copy and pasting code if it wasn't written by me.
        - This is to encourage manually writing out code and practicing the syntax. 
3) I cannot directly ask AI how to solve a problem directly, it must always be given in hints.
        - I still would like some help from AI to help with the debugging process, however, I also don't want my hand to be held. 
4) Stack Overflow is my friend
        - I can use stack overflow as much as I please, however, if I found a solution, I must cite in my code. 

Those are some base rules that I have thought of and will follow. If I think of more rules I will add them. 

However today, there is not much to update on the code, considering I am not sure how to implement the last two functions, as the prompt that helped to create this first project was a bit unclear on what those two functions should act as.

## Jan. 6th

Today at work (for context, I work in IT at this nonprofit), I’ve been meaning to automate some tasks that simply require navigating the browser. For example, say I have a new employee that I need to place in the EHR system. There’s nothing special about the process besides parsing the email from HR and filling it out according to the employee’s role. I’ll have to implement the logic based on what type of employee they are, and there are still some things I need to figure out, but hopefully by the end of it I should be able to make the onboarding process a lot quicker. I guess my main goals with this automation are: one, to make it really easy for the next guy; two, to expose myself to the world of automation; and three, to make it easier for my manager to handle some of these tasks in case I’m not here.

Unfortunately, since I’m writing this code on company time, I can’t really post any examples. The majority of the work involves going in, checking which elements need to be interacted with, and then adding those steps into the script. I’m mainly dealing with Python and Selenium, and surprisingly it was a lot easier to set up than I imagined.

As for my C++ project, I’ll probably take a look at it after work.

Likewise, I have been looking more in the job search, and so far no real luck :/ . 


# Next Week:
- Still don't know
